# Poultry-Farm
Intelligent System Based on Multivariable Machine Learning for Environmental Conditions in Poultry Farms: Experimental Validation in Mexico

This research develops an integrated system that combines the Internet of Things with machine learning for the purpose of optimizing environmental conditions in Mexican poultry farms. A four-module architecture is imple-mented: IoT Module for real-time environmental data collection through var-ious sensors (DHT22, MQ-7, MQ-137, MG-811), processing and storage module, multivariable machine learning module, and visualization module. Experimental validation was conducted over 62 days in a commercial poul-try farm, continuously monitoring critical variables of temperature, humidity, CO₂, and NH₃. The data were processed using classification and regression algorithms, including Random Forest, neural networks, and Gradient Boost-ing, to generate real-time recommendations.
Random Forest algorithms showed the best classification performance (68% accuracy), while Gradient Boosting achieved the lowest mean square error in regression (RMSE=1.32). Through variable importance analysis, it was iden-tified that indoor temperature (37.5%), CO₂ levels (18.3%), and bird age (15.7%) are the most significant variables. Therefore, an Agglomerative Hi-erarchical Clustering analysis (k=5) was executed, which allowed categoriz-ing specific microenvironments: Temperate-Humid, Warm-Dry, Cold-Humid, Temperate, and Hot-Dry.
The system implementation makes predictions about the trend of tempera-ture, humidity, NH3, and CO2. The developed system establishes a signifi-cant evidence-based advancement for poultry farming in Mexico, promoting animal welfare and environmental sustainability through continuous monitor-ing and processing of multiple variables that impact the environment of Mex-ican poultry farms.
